Hello and welcome to this lecture where we're going to dive a little bit deeper into learning as well.
We want to make sure you've got a good grasp on what's going on here and I want to show you some extra
tools that you can use.
So the first order of business here is I know we just worked to create this whole database of work with
events.
I want you to now manipulate this code so that it creates the database called users and then switches
back to users.
Case so go ahead take a second update just to be working with users now.
All right so hopefully that went well for you.
We wanted to update this to say this new database is going to be users I guess it's not new.
We've already created this before.
And again we're going to update this to say users and we had chose to have name and age for our two
options so I'll go ahead and you know put back something like Nick here and let's go ahead and do something
maybe like Dave here we have Dave B 14.
So rather than you know working with the events table we want that to be users.
Users here also want this to be users instead of year.
We want that to be age.
So we're going to have to switch that to age.
That's the name age yeah that's looking pretty good from users that when we come down here we're going
to call this user results user results that we want this to be updated to be age and they'll be age
index.
Excellent.
So that should be working.
Let's go ahead and give that a run.
Make sure it's exactly what we're hoping for there but yeah we want to bring this back to users so I
can show you how to do a few more sort of awesome examples here.
OK.
So we'll go ahead and give this a second to run.
I want this to pop up on the emulator although we're just going to be looking at log cat so we'll go
ahead and get that fired up there.
OK so here comes the app.
You're still waiting here hear what hand-write studio we believe in you.
Come on.
All right.
Well this is going I'm going to teach you just a little something here so the next thing that I want
to talk about is how you can specifically query from a database you don't have to do a big general like
just go ahead and get all the users you can say hey no only give me this amount of people or people
that are related to this thing.
So for example with people's age you can say you know what we only want you to get the adults from the
database meaning we only want you to go get people who are older than age 18 and just real quick here
I want to show.
Looks like the app opened up and look at printed out all these people Nick Shonn Nick Dave.
So we don't need to insert any more people into our database.
We're going to comment that out for a second.
But again getting back to what I was just talking about if we want to get only users who are above age
18 after we create our query where we say select star select everything from users we can say capitol
where and add some sort of qualifier to say you know get all the people where.
Meaning all the people that for example are older than 18 if we want to do that with that age greater
than 18 so this will give us all the adults and if we go back to our log cat here looks like everyone
here is an adult except for a very last one Dave so we should see Nick and Shawn showing up.
No 14 year old Dave.
So let's go ahead and run this one more time.
Hopefully we should see a little bit more of a quicker turnaround here with the emulator now that we
got that run for the first time and look at that.
This is going much faster.
So at this it comes through and let's go check what we get.
Look at that.
We've got Nick Shonn Nick Shawn Nick but no Dave.
Age 14.
And conversely if we said give us everyone under the age of 18 if we go ahead and change that we should
only have Dave coming back from that situation so let's go ahead and confirm that that's the case.
And when we do this let's scroll up there and look at that.
We only get back Dave.
So this is how you can kind of be a little bit more selective about this and you may be wondering you
know can I just do a select star from users and then here inside of this wall loop kind of do a check
to say oh only if they're age older than 18 Do I want to you know use them or something like that you
can.
But doing these queery with these specific wear tags it's so much more efficient than looping through
on your own the cue a light database has its own code written to do things like that and it just goes
so much faster than if you tried this on your own especially when you have like thousands or millions
of records that would be able to handle that much better.
So not only can you take an integer and see you know if its greater or less than that other things that
you can do for example is we could check the name and say you know go ahead and just give us every one
that has the name Nick.
So with as.
Q Well you only have to do one single equal sign there were in Java IF statements you have to do to
equal sign but you just have the one for example and do capital Nic and let's see if that gives us back
all the users named Nick so go ahead and run this and wait for app here boom.
Come look at that.
And look we have three Nicks inside of the database that's kind of crazy that that happened.
So here to kind of just prove something real quick let's add one more Nick to the database.
But let's add maybe a neck that's like 23 and let's add a nick to the database that's like 43.
OK.
So we're going to add Nick that's 23 in a neck that's 43 and then we have these next two are 28 so let's
say we wanted to find all the Nicks who were you know had the name Nick but then also were equal to
the age of 43 for example like we're trying to just get that specific one where we could say where name
is equal to Nick.
And then if we do all caps and we can set another sort of conditional element where we could say age
is equal to 43.
So now if we go ahead and run this we're saying give us all the users where the names equal to Nick
and the age is equal to 43.
That's kind of nice how that reads out like English right.
Give us all users where the name is equal the Nick and the age is 43 so if we do that we should only
get that one if we wanted to be you know a little trick here we could say where you know someone's age
is less than 30.
For example if we do this it should give us all the 28 year old nics and the 23 year old Nick would
be pretty cool to see so let's go ahead and run that real quick
right.
Here comes the code.
And look at that we got all the 28 and the 23 year old Nick and realized we're running this code again
and again so we're just adding more nicks into the database.
There's probably too many necks at this point.
OK.
Other things that you can do is you know let's say I believe we had the database was full of Nick Shan's
and Dave's other things that you can do is you can find users inside of the database and say like if
you just want to check people whose names start with a particular letter so you could say where the
name capital like and then you could say something like in single quotes and percentage signs that says
Get everyone who's name starts with and then so we only have Nicks inside of the database so this one
won't be as exciting but you will see everyone whose name starts with and then which again in this case
is on the neck.
But it goes ahead and it grabs all of them.
Now something else that you can do with this like is you could say you know I just want anyone that
has like an A in their name so I think this should get Dave and Sean that we had earlier so if you do
a percentage sign a percentage sign that saying anyone that has anything before and anything after an
a go find that person inside of the database so let's go ahead and run this again looking for Shawn
and Dave to show up with this kind of query.
So we go ahead and we hit run on that.
And if we scroll up to the top there look at that we get both Shan's and Dave's there.
So something that you do want to do whenever you're searching for users like this in a query you always
want to after you specify your where to say if you're looking for one particular person you would want
to say limit one.
And the reason for this is that you know sometimes you're going to get back multiple people and if you're
looking to delete that particular user or do something with them if you get multiple ones sometimes
you can have an issue.
So you don't always have to do a live one but if you're trying to delete a particular user or do something
it's good to have that limit one to make sure you don't by accident you know write some query that actually
gets everyone from the database and then you know deletes every single person or something like that.
So that can be a good check for you when you're trying to run things.
So with all of this let's go ahead and talk about how we can delete someone from the database.
So let's go ahead and just move this back to slick star from users.
We just want every user there and I'm going to show you how you can do one of these deletions So we're
going to take this as well light database and we're going to do dot execute as well.
And this is how you delete a particular In this case user from the users table.
You do all caps delete space from lowercase users that's the name of our table and will say Kapell the
where.
And then after that we're going to say name equal to.
And let's get rid of one of these next.
For example don't I don't want double quotes on one single quote.
So will do.
Her name is equal to Nick.
Now if we just left this as is this would delete all the nicks from the database.
But if we want to delete only one.
This is where we'd want to say limit 1 right.
So let's go ahead and provide that we're saying limit 1.
But you'll notice that we do get a bit of an error here in the situation is that when you're deleting
something you can't say limit 1.
You have to delete all or nothing which kind of leaves a strange situation.
So let me tell you how to fix that in a second.
But since we can only delete one of the next let's go ahead and delete our one Dave.
So we're just going to say hey if your name's equal to Dave we're going to get Legia.
So let's go ahead and run this.
And we should see that Dave will no longer be in there because we're all delete him here.
The next line will say hey go grab all the users so if we do that like that we only have Nick and Shawn
showing up.
OK.
Now the next step for us is you know we would want to delete all.
Just like one particular Nick and if we do want to do that we have to update our table a little bit.
So in order to do this let's go ahead and gives ourselves some space we have to add an extra property
to this table an extra column called The ID which is going to be something called a primary key which
basically allows you to give a unique number to everyone that's inside of the row.
And it allows you to say oh even though there's two nicks who were aged twenty eight you know they look
identical they have different ideas so I can differentiate between the two.
So we're going to update here a little bit.
We're going to keep that database called users but we're going to make a new table that we are going
to call new users just like that and we're going to keep the name Vardar we're going to keep the year
end but we're going to add one new property here one new column called ID and it is going to be a type
capital integer.
So just go ahead type that out.
And we're also going to say space primary space key.
So it's saying this last column here idea is going to be an integer and you knows we don't do it with
a number in there we're just saying an integer which I can't remember with the default size of that
is but I think it's enough to handle up to I'd guess at least to the hundreds of thousands place.
But we're sense we're making this a primary key this is going to automatically count this ID value for
us.
So moving forward through here I'm going to go ahead and uncomment these lines.
So these will still go ahead and create and I'm going to comment out the delete one.
These will still go ahead and insert new users and you can see we don't specify like oh I want Heidi
to be equal to like five or something like that.
No we want this to just automatically pick the IDs for us.
And as to a light is far enough to say hey if they want a primary key all of us ought to automatically
increment that as I'm supposed to.
And then just sort of move forward with the rest of that code.
So if we're going to have this new idea we should be able to see it.
So we're going to make a new in here called ID index.
We're going to have this be equal to see get column index for ID.
Excellent.
And then we can go ahead and print out the ideas well so we'll paste that in.
We're going to change that to say id and this should be id index.
All right so with this all in place this is a completely new table so these are going to be the only
3 users that are going to be inside of this new table in an existing database but new table.
So we're going to go ahead and hit run on this and we should see all of them printed out with their
proper IDs there.
So let's go ahead and see what we get.
It will open up long cat here.
And if we scroll up to the top here who failed to read Roe This is because I have not updated this to
be new users so let's go ahead and do that.
Try running one more time.
So I had a soul doing the query where we were selecting from users.
Oh and I'm trying to add these new user objects into the users array.
I want this to be the new capital users so I'm going to have to copy and paste and update that.
This is where ESC gets tricky because it's all just sort of these strings and you have to make sure
that it all works.
And you know Java doesn't really have a good way to check to say Oh did you mean new users here right.
Like you can have to be on top of things but finally got things in place and oh my goodness we still
don't have this is because when I created new users it was supposed to I should change this to age instead
of year.
So let me go ahead and switch them back.
And so maybe I'm going to have to call this something besides new users.
Well let's just see.
Know let's let's call this maybe the new users because we really waft on that one.
So go ahead and paste this and all right.
And let's try this now with that table called the new users they've got a name age and an I.D. and this
should work.
Finally this time.
So let's see app comes down.
And look at that.
It took three or four tries there but we finally got it so there's Nick who's 23.
Nick who's 43 and Dave who's 14 right.
Those are the three users that we inserted.
But look one has an idea of when one has an idea of two.
One has an idea of three and we are.
If we were to run this one more time this Nick would have an idea of four 5 and six and there would
be a total of six users inside of that database so I'm going to comment out these insert lines just
for a moment here because I want to show you now with an idea.
Let's say you know what.
I've got two nicks in the database and I want to get rid of one of them.
You know I want to get rid of this Nick who's 43.
I can just now say on this as cue a light queery or this command I can say delete from users where I
now just say I d is equal to.
And if it's this Nick who's 43 that I want to get rid of I just put where ideas equal to two.
And that's going to automatically get rid of that specific Nick.
So let's go ahead and run this.
Make sure that that is the case King app opens up.
And if we scroll no such column I column I d.
That is what I had named it.
Oh and look at that because I'm still using the wrong one to have to call the table.
The new users are right.
You can see I'm not perfect with this rescue l stuff it's you know I really like Java and that when
you use variable names like it checks to make sure you kind of used in the right stuff.
But the rescue stuff is a little bit of the wild wild west so we open this up and look at that.
It has Nick who's 23 with an idea of one and Dave who's 14 whose idea is three in the middle neck is
just gone completely.
So there you got it a little bit more detailed information into this advanced cue a light stuff now
that you got a good grasp on this.
I think we're ready to move forward.
So let's talk about it in the next lecture.